Pod security policies.
Pod security policies enable you
to control the security aspects
of the pods' creation and updates.
For example, you can deny using privileged mode in pods.
So if someone then starts a pod using privileged mode,
the pod will not be scheduled
because it's not allowed to run a pod
in privileged mode anymore.
You can also control what volumes can be mounted.
For example, can it use a config map, a secret
or is that denied?
And then an interesting one,
make sure containers only run within a UID/GID range
or make sure that containers cannot run as root.
So you can add this extra layer of protection
to make sure none of your containers can run as a root.
Or then even specify that particular pods
have to run within a certain UID/GID range.
So UID is the user ID
and GID is the group ID.
So basically you can influence
what user ID and GID in Linux
in the container needs to be used.
The pod security policy is an admission controller
that can be enabled at cluster startup.
The pod security admission controller
will be invoked at pod creation or modification.
So when you create a pod or modify one,
then it will check whether you are allowed
to run this kind of pod
and if not, it will not get scheduled.
It will determine whether the pod meets
the pod security policy based
on the security context defined
within the pod specification.
So basically if you enable privileged mode,
but you're not allowed to use it,
the pod will not be scheduled.
The pod security policy admission controller
is currently not enabled
by default in Kubernetes 1.16.
It probably will be in the future.
In the next demo, I'll show you how to enable it
and create a PodSecurityPolicy
to implement some extra security controls
for new pods that are then created.
You'll typically need at least two PodSecurityPolicies.
One for the system processes because some of then need
to run privileged or as root
and then one for the pods users want
to schedule which should be tighter
than system policies, for example, deny privileged pods.
And that I will show you in the next demo.